# NBA Data Anaysis Project

## Background

This project was an assignment set by Dr Jocelyn Mara of the University of Canberra.

## Scenario

I am a data analyst with the Chicago Bulls competing in the NBA (National Basketball Association). In the most recent NBA season (2018-19), the Bulls placed 27th out of 30 (based on win-loss record). The Bulls' budget for player contracts next season  is $118 million, ranked 26th out of 30 (for the purpose of this assignment, next season is 2019-20). For context, the team with the highest payroll budget is Portland with $148 million, while the best performing team was Milwaukee Bucks (who clinched the best league record in 2018-19 with $131 million.

## Aims

I have been tasked by the GM of the Chicago Bulls to find the best five starting players (one from each position) the team can afford. (It should be noted that all of the money shouldn't be used up on just these five players, as there needs to be enough money left to fill the rest of the roster, but this assignment is just focused on finding five starting players here). Players that are already playing for Chicago Bulls can be considered, bit it needs to be proven that they are worth it.


## Directory Contents

- **analysis.R:** contains files that run code related to the analysis of the tidy/processed data 

- **cleaning.R:** contains files that run code related to the cleaning and tidying of the raw data

Both of the above allow for easy use of relative paths instead of absolute paths.

- **data:** consists of two sub-directories, **raw**, for the initial data files, and **processed**, which contains tidy/processed data files

- **docs:** holds any final documents used to communicate analysis, like reports

- **figs:** contains figurs generated by R code

- **funs:** holds any functions written by myself that can be sourced

- **out:** houses any files produced from original data files, like the ones in the **data/processed** directory

